# Notes

- There're a lot of libraries that simplify working with Reactive in Swift. In this book, we will show examples based on **ReactiveCocoa** and **RxSwift**, the most used ones.
- The concepts explained in this book can be applied to other programming languages. Once you understand the core ideas of Reactive Programming, the difference is in the syntax and the API that the framework you use offers.
- Comprehending Reactive without some functional concepts is difficult. You'll find the term *Functional Reactive Programming (FRP)* instead of just simply, RP. This book will address some functional concepts that should not be very complicated. In case functional ideas might be confusing for you, I recommend you to read the book [**Functional Programming in Swift**](https://www.objc.io/books/) by *Chris Eidhof, Florian Kugler, and Wouter Swierstra*.
- The *method* of this book consits on going through the implementation of an iPhone app, explaining how all its components could be implemented using Reactive, from the interaction with a database, to the user's actions.
- The book is available on this [repository](https://github.com/SwiftReactive/reactive-programming-in-your-swift-apps) where you will find the book written in Markdown. Feel free to propose improvements, fix mistakes or even add new examples. Any direct contributor will have a special mention in the book giving thanks for its contribution.
- The example app presented in this book is also available in the same [repository](https://github.com/SwiftReactive/reactive-programming-in-your-swift-apps). The `README.md` file contains the steps necessary to clone and setup the project locally.
- You can report *"bugs"* creating PR in the repository or just sending an email to [pepibumur@gmail.com](mailto://pepibumur@gmail.com).
